He didn’t git angry, as I ’oped he would, but he smiled a kind
of insolent smile, with a mouth full of white, sharp teeth. ‘Oh no, they
wouldn’t like me,’ ’e says.

“‘Ow yes, they would,’ says I, a-imitatin’ of him. ‘They always likes a
bone or two to clean their teeth on about tea-time, which you ’as a
bagful.’

“Well, it was a odd thing, but when the animiles see us a-talkin’ they
lay down, and when I went over to Bersicker he let me stroke his ears
same as ever. That there man kem over, and blessed but if he didn’t put
in his hand and stroke the old wolf’s ears too!

“‘Tyke care,’ says I. ‘Bersicker is quick.’

“‘Never mind,’ he says. ‘I’m used to ’em!’

“‘Are you in the business yourself?’ I says, tyking off my ’at, for a
man what trades in wolves, anceterer, is a good friend to keepers.

“‘No,’ says he, ‘not exactly in the business, but I ’ave made pets of
several.’ And with that he lifts his ’at as perlite as a lord, and walks
away. Old Bersicker kep’ a-lookin’ arter ’im till ’e was out of sight,
and then went and lay down in a corner and wouldn’t come hout the ’ole
hevening. Well, larst night, so soon as the moon was hup, the wolves
here all began a-’owling. There warn’t nothing for them to ’owl at.
There warn’t no one near, except some one that was evidently a-callin’ a
dog somewheres out back of the gardings in the Park road. Once or twice
I went out to see that all was right, and it was, and then the ’owling
stopped. Just before twelve o’clock I just took a look round afore
turnin’ in, an’, bust me, but when I kem opposite to old Bersicker’s
cage I see the rails broken and twisted about and the cage empty. And
that’s all I know for certing.”

“Did any one else see anything?”

“One of our gard’ners was a-comin’ ’ome about that time from a ’armony,
when he sees a big grey dog comin’ out through the garding ’edges. At
least, so he says, but I don’t give much for it myself, for if he did ’e
never said a word about it to his missis when ’e got ’ome, and it was
only after the escape of the wolf was made known, and we had been up all
night-a-huntin’ of the Park for Bersicker, that he remembered seein’
anything. My own belief was that the ’armony ’ad got into his ’ead.”

“Now, Mr. Bilder, can you account in any way for the escape of the
wolf?”

“Well, sir,” he said, with a suspicious sort of modesty, “I think I can;
but I don’t know as ’ow you’d be satisfied with the theory.”

“Certainly I shall. If a man like you, who knows the animals from
experience, can’t hazard a good guess at any rate, who is even to try?”

“Well then, sir, I accounts for it this way; it seems to me that ’ere
wolf escaped--simply because he wanted to get out.”

From the hearty way that both Thomas and his wife laughed at the joke I
could see that it had done service before, and that the whole
explanation was simply an elaborate sell. I couldn’t cope in badinage
with the worthy Thomas, but I thought I knew a surer way to his heart,
so I said:--

“Now, Mr. Bilder, we’ll consider that first half-sovereign worked off,
and this brother of his is waiting to be claimed when you’ve told me
what you think will happen.”

“Right y’are, sir,” he said briskly. “Ye’ll excoose me, I know, for
a-chaffin’ of ye, but the old woman here winked at me, which was as much
as telling me to go on.”

“Well, I never!” said the old lady.

“My opinion is this: that ’ere wolf is a-’idin’ of, somewheres.