This tomb was erected by his sorrowing mother to her dearly
beloved son. ‘He was the only son of his mother, and she was a widow.’
Really, Mr. Swales, I don’t see anything very funny in that!” She spoke
her comment very gravely and somewhat severely.

“Ye don’t see aught funny! Ha! ha! But that’s because ye don’t gawm the
sorrowin’ mother was a hell-cat that hated him because he was
acrewk’d--a regular lamiter he was--an’ he hated her so that he
committed suicide in order that she mightn’t get an insurance she put on
his life. He blew nigh the top of his head off with an old musket that
they had for scarin’ the crows with. ’Twarn’t for crows then, for it
brought the clegs and the dowps to him. That’s the way he fell off the
rocks. And, as to hopes of a glorious resurrection, I’ve often heard him
say masel’ that he hoped he’d go to hell, for his mother was so pious
that she’d be sure to go to heaven, an’ he didn’t want to addle where
she was. Now isn’t that stean at any rate”--he hammered it with his
stick as he spoke--“a pack of lies? and won’t it make Gabriel keckle
when Geordie comes pantin’ up the grees with the tombstean balanced on
his hump, and asks it to be took as evidence!”

I did not know what to say, but Lucy turned the conversation as she
said, rising up:--

“Oh, why did you tell us of this? It is my favourite seat, and I cannot
leave it; and now I find I must go on sitting over the grave of a
suicide.”

“That won’t harm ye, my pretty; an’ it may make poor Geordie gladsome to
have so trim a lass sittin’ on his lap. That won’t hurt ye. Why, I’ve
sat here off an’ on for nigh twenty years past, an’ it hasn’t done me
no harm. Don’t ye fash about them as lies under ye, or that doesn’ lie
there either! It’ll be time for ye to be getting scart when ye see the
tombsteans all run away with, and the place as bare as a stubble-field.
There’s the clock, an’ I must gang. My service to ye, ladies!” And off
he hobbled.

Lucy and I sat awhile, and it was all so beautiful before us that we
took hands as we sat; and she told me all over again about Arthur and
their coming marriage. That made me just a little heart-sick, for I
haven’t heard from Jonathan for a whole month.

 * * * * *

_The same day._ I came up here alone, for I am very sad. There was no
letter for me. I hope there cannot be anything the matter with Jonathan.
The clock has just struck nine. I see the lights scattered all over the
town, sometimes in rows where the streets are, and sometimes singly;
they run right up the Esk and die away in the curve of the valley. To my
left the view is cut off by a black line of roof of the old house next
the abbey. The sheep and lambs are bleating in the fields away behind
me, and there is a clatter of a donkey’s hoofs up the paved road below.
The band on the pier is playing a harsh waltz in good time, and further
along the quay there is a Salvation Army meeting in a back street.
Neither of the bands hears the other, but up here I hear and see them
both. I wonder where Jonathan is and if he is thinking of me! I wish he
were here.

_Dr. Seward’s Diary._

_5 June._--The case of Renfield grows more interesting the more I get to
understand the man. He has certain qualities very largely developed;
selfishness, secrecy, and purpose. I wish I could get at what is the
object of the latter. He seems to have some settled scheme of his own,
but what it is I do not yet know.