Tell me, like one good fellow
to another, is there any one else that you care for? And if there is
I’ll never trouble you a hair’s breadth again, but will be, if you will
let me, a very faithful friend.’

“My dear Mina, why are men so noble when we women are so little worthy
of them? Here was I almost making fun of this great-hearted, true
gentleman. I burst into tears--I am afraid, my dear, you will think
this a very sloppy letter in more ways than one--and I really felt very
badly. Why can’t they let a girl marry three men, or as many as want
her, and save all this trouble? But this is heresy, and I must not say
it. I am glad to say that, though I was crying, I was able to look into
Mr. Morris’s brave eyes, and I told him out straight:--

“‘Yes, there is some one I love, though he has not told me yet that he
even loves me.’ I was right to speak to him so frankly, for quite a
light came into his face, and he put out both his hands and took mine--I
think I put them into his--and said in a hearty way:--

“‘That’s my brave girl. It’s better worth being late for a chance of
winning you than being in time for any other girl in the world. Don’t
cry, my dear. If it’s for me, I’m a hard nut to crack; and I take it
standing up. If that other fellow doesn’t know his happiness, well, he’d
better look for it soon, or he’ll have to deal with me. Little girl,
your honesty and pluck have made me a friend, and that’s rarer than a
lover; it’s more unselfish anyhow. My dear, I’m going to have a pretty
lonely walk between this and Kingdom Come. Won’t you give me one kiss?
It’ll be something to keep off the darkness now and then. You can, you
know, if you like, for that other good fellow--he must be a good fellow,
my dear, and a fine fellow, or you could not love him--hasn’t spoken
yet.’ That quite won me, Mina, for it _was_ brave and sweet of him, and
noble, too, to a rival--wasn’t it?--and he so sad; so I leant over and
kissed him. He stood up with my two hands in his, and as he looked down
into my face--I am afraid I was blushing very much--he said:--

“‘Little girl, I hold your hand, and you’ve kissed me, and if these
things don’t make us friends nothing ever will. Thank you for your sweet
honesty to me, and good-bye.’ He wrung my hand, and taking up his hat,
went straight out of the room without looking back, without a tear or a
quiver or a pause; and I am crying like a baby. Oh, why must a man like
that be made unhappy when there are lots of girls about who would
worship the very ground he trod on? I know I would if I were free--only
I don’t want to be free. My dear, this quite upset me, and I feel I
cannot write of happiness just at once, after telling you of it; and I
don’t wish to tell of the number three until it can be all happy.

“Ever your loving

“LUCY.

“P.S.--Oh, about number Three--I needn’t tell you of number Three, need
I? Besides, it was all so confused; it seemed only a moment from his
coming into the room till both his arms were round me, and he was
kissing me. I am very, very happy, and I don’t know what I have done to
deserve it. I must only try in the future to show that I am not
ungrateful to God for all His goodness to me in sending to me such a
lover, such a husband, and such a friend.

“Good-bye.”

_Dr. Seward’s Diary._

(Kept in phonograph)

_25 May._--Ebb tide in appetite to-day. Cannot eat, cannot rest, so
diary instead.